Anyway, that's how I escaped from space prison.
Whoa, scary place.
Wow, Rick.
That's one heck of a story.
I sure do wish I could have been there to see it happen.
Oh, come on.
Who wants to watch a mad scientist use handmade sci-fi tools to take out highly trained alien
guards when we can sit here and be a family at Shoneys?
Dad, it's great to have you back no matter where we are, but wouldn't you like to go
home?
Emotionally speaking, honey, Shoneys is my home.
Yeah, but you just got out of prison.
I mean, how much of a step up from that is...
All right, get out of the booth, take all your clothes off and fold yourself 12 times.
You got it.
Six folds, huh?
What do you guys got me in a series 9000?
You cheap insect fucks didn't think I was worth your best equipment.
Man, I told the money bugs.
I said you know who this guy is, right?
You want me to get intel out of the smartest mammal in the galaxy?
You better give me a decent brain-alizer.
Well, you might as well order some pancakes because I don't see the need to leave this
part of my brain.
Oh, I think you do.
Eventually, you're either going to relax your cerebellum.
Shoneys?
Or the series 9000 is going to turn it into mush.
Relaxed enough?
I admire you, Rick.
You know?
Rick Huston.
What's going on?
It's hard to tell.
He may have manifested some sort of butt.
He can do that?
He is the smartest man in the universe.
I tell you, the Galactic Federation taking over Earth, best thing that's ever happened
to this family.
I just got my sixth promotion this week and I still don't know what I do.
Who cares how high they promote you?
Everyone just gets paid in pills.
Well, when you're not sure what you do for a living, you can make your own rules.
Summert, show your father some respect.
He's pulling down a six-chulable figure income.
I'll get that in a moment.
How are everyone's pills?
How more do you got than touch your pills?
I kind of had big pills for lunch and I thought I was going to get more pills.
Thank you, Conroy.
You spoil us, Conroy.
Grandpa Rick wouldn't put up with this.
Stop saying his name.
He abandoned us.
Willem Dafoe.
That's the guy I couldn't think of this morning.
Don't make my mistake, Summert.
Don't deify the people that leave you.
You'll end up a horse surgeon in a world controlled by aliens whose medicine keeps horses healthy
forever.
Horses live longer than tortoises.
Now is that what you want for yourself?
Maybe I just want you to carry it by runaway yelling.
Who saved room for pill brulee?
Who?
I can see why you chose this family-friendly restaurant to represent your cerebellum.
So safe, so comfortable, so shownies.
But admit it, Rick.
You're going crazy cooped up in here.
Let's go visit some memories.
Oh, any particular ones?
You want to see my first boner or should we go straight to the moment I discovered interdimensional
travel?
Ooh, your little flappy doodles are twitching.
Does that mean you're aroused or did you just get a signal that one of your buddies
found a grape?
It's arousal.
Yes, I'd like very much to visit the memory of you inventing your portal gun.
Yeah, well, tough titties.
There's no tougher titties than a psychotic break, Rick.
Well, that depends on who brings first.
Me or the tittie.
Someone special, you remember?
Is that your memory of her out there between where you were on 9-11 and your favorite sports
blooper?
If we stay here, you'll die along with all your memories.
If you take me where I want to go, she'll be there too, won't she?
The day I invented the portal gun is the day I lost her.
Oh, that sounds cool.
I can get what I want and you can say goodbye.
Fine, but I'm driving.
What are you doing?
Grandpa Rick must have some secret lab, right?
With laser guns and jet packs and a space tank and we can go break him out of prison.
Look at these dead flies.
Maybe if we arrange them in a certain order, it plays a hologram or it opens a secret door.
Summer, you're freaking me out.
I know things have changed a lot and I know you miss Rick, but getting him back wouldn't
make things better and, you know, we're not doing so bad.
We're miserable, Morty.
There's a mandatory curfew.
Their weird calendar made me 47 and they weaponized the Eiffel Tower.
I like being 35.
I can rent a car now.
Because you suck.
You've been keeping your lips zipped about it since Grandpa got arrested, but the fact
is you're freaking stoked to bail on him.
He bails on everybody.
He bailed on Mom when she was a kid.
He bailed on Tiny Planet.
And in case I never made this clear to you, Summer, he bailed on you.
He left you to rot in a world that he ruined because he doesn't care, because nobody's special
to him, Summer, not even himself.
So if you really want your grandpa back, grab a shovel.
The one that won't let you down is buried in your backyard.
You're right.
What?
No, I'm not right.
I was using ghoulish overkill.
Ghoulish overkill, Summer.
Oh, God.
Woo-woo.
Where are we going?
To the day it all began and ended, the moment that changed everything.
Welcome to McDonald's.
Can I take your order?
Yeah, I'd like to get a 10-piece McNugget and a bunch of the Szechuan sauce, like as
much as you're allowed to give me.
In 1998, they had this promotion for the Disney film Mulan, where they created a new
sauce for the McNuggets called Szechuan sauce.
And it's delicious.
And then they got rid of it.
And now it's gone.
This is the only place we're going to be able to try it.
It's in my memory.
Rick, you're doing this bit while your brain is melting.
Okay, all right, all right.
Is that me?
I used to wear blue pants.
When did you make the leap to interdimensional travel?
I didn't.
I did.
Well, well, well.
If it isn't us.
You know the worst part about inventing teleportation.
Suddenly, you're able to travel the whole galaxy.
And the first thing you learn is you're the last guy to invent teleportation.
Fortunately, you're about to invent something much more powerful.
What?
Summer?
Nobody has to know about that.
We can put it right back and pretend we never saw it, like we did with Dad's mannequin leg.
Fine.
Stay here.
I'll rescue Grandpa myself.
And how are you going to do that?
I don't know yet.
I'll make it up as I go.
That's what Grandpa Rick does.
That's what heroes do.
You want to see what a hero Rick is?
I'll bring you somewhere, Summer.
Oh my God.
I have that exact same top.
What is this place?
And what's with Hunger Games Summer?
That's my sister.
This used to be my home.
Imagine doing anything you want, then hopping to a timeline where you never did it.
Imagine going anywhere anytime with nobody able to stop you.
Sounds lonely.
Lonely?
Dude, you have yourself.
You're infinite selves.
It's a non-stop party where all the guests are the only person we like.
You think it's cool being the smartest man on Earth, but once we give you this technology,
you become the smartest thing in every conceivable universe.
The infinite Rick, a god.
Eh, pass.
Excuse me?
Bro, Rick's don't pass on this.
Who do you think you are?
A different kind of Rick, I guess.
Well, we'll see how long that lasts.
I heard sci-fi noises.
Did you make a breakthrough?
Sort of.
I just took a long look at myself and I don't think this science thing is going to pay off.
Well, why don't I get bath and we'll go out for ice cream?
That, Diane, is the last great idea that will ever be had in this garage.
Good bro to Cronenburg, I assume.
Mom, you're looking feral.
I can't believe Rick did this.
These are the parts of Rick's adventures you don't get to see.
The parts he leaves behind.
Alright, it's been great, guys.
I really only wanted to stop by here for a quick I told you so.
So, uh, looking for this.
What are you doing with that?
It stinks of Rick.
Why, why would you do that?
What does it matter with you people?
You're a bunch of back savages, backwood savage morons.
You can never leave.
She cannot remain.
She stinks of Rick.
No!
Hold your fire, hold your fire!
I'm Morty C-137.
We detected a compromised portal gun.
Where is your Rick?
He's in prison.
Summer.
He got captured by the Federation and we were going to rescue him.
Very troubling.
We can't risk Citadel's secrets falling into the Federation's hands.
We'll dispatch Seal Team Ricks immediately to break into the prison holding C-137.
Booyah.
And assassinate him.
Booyah?
Come on girls, the ice cream's gonna melt.
Noooooooooooooooo!
Wow.
This sauce is fucking amazing.
You said it was promoting a movie.
Carrying a three.
Attitude.
I got it.
I fucking got it!
Whoa, is that it?
The portal gun?
Yeah, that's the three lines of math that separates my life as a man,
from my life as an unfeeling ghost.
Awesome, awesome.
You getting this?
Holy shit, yes!
Yes, we got it!
Thanks, Rick.
I'll try to remember to shut off the brain-alizer.
Actually, I think it shuts off automatically
once your brain is liquid.
Don't know. Don't care.
Pull me out.
Hey, pull me out. Can you hear me?
Nope.
They cannot.
Why not?
Because the code you just uploaded
wasn't actually my Portal Den formula.
It was a virus giving me full control over the brain-alizer.
What are you talking about? This is a memory.
You can't alter details of a memory.
True, but you can alter anything you want
about a totally fabricated origin story.
It's a trap! Abort!
I'm still in his show needs. Repeat!
We never left his show needs!
Mission accomplished, boys.
Pull me out.
Roger that.
Okay, have fun in what's left of my brain.
I'm gonna transfer to yours.
Oh, there's not enough room for all my genius,
so I'm leaving you with my fear of wicked furniture,
my desire to play the trumpet,
my tentative plans to purchase a hat,
and six years of improv workshops.
Comedy comes in threes.
It's a trap! Abort!
We never left his...
Ah!
Ha, ha, ha, ha!
No!
Another day, another dollar.
Am I a great insect creature or what?
Congratulations, agent.
You'll be highly commended for this.
Always waiting for permission to...
Uh.
...feel accomplishment. That's my motto.
One thing still perplexes me.
Why would Rick Sanchez turn himself in?
Well, I'm just a dumb-ass bug,
but it's possible Rick knew he'd be interrogated
at this facility where we not only keep our most wanted,
but our most sensitive data.
Anyone here with level nine access could...
Uh, and I don't know.
Collapse the government.
I'm just gonna go take a dump.
Is it cool if I use the level nine bathroom?
What's the level nine master access?
Oh, it's easy.
Eight, three...
Yeah!
You'll keep Rick in the house!
Hi, Rick.
Bye, Rick.
D-99, you okay?
I bummed I didn't get to give that insect dick a test drive.
Wait, wait, wait, wait!
The council at Rick's sent us.
We have your morty in summer.
The prisoner's on the Citadel.
Great.
Security breach in room 675.
Lovely.
Not only is my plan screwed up,
I also forgot how to improvise.
Security people approach.
Security breach.
A city of grandpa?
It's the Citadel of Rick's.
All the different Rick's from all the different realities
got together to hide here from the government.
But if every Rick hates the government,
why would they hate grandpa?
Because Rick's hate themselves the most,
and our Rick is the most... himself.
Not anymore, homie.
Seal Team Rick's turned his unibrow into two brows
with a bullet.
Rick's dead!
Sir, Rick D-99 is returning from the mission.
Alone.
Apparently, Seal Team Rick's suffered heavy casualties.
Bring him in.
He says he'll only talk to a Rick with higher clearance.
La dee da.
Give me that.
D-99, this is the commander in chief of the Citadel's militia.
Good... good enough.
He's a spy. Blow him up.
I'm gonna go take a shit.
Operating an unregistered portal gun,
radicalizing a summer,
conspiring with a traitorous Rick.
How do you plead?
How is this a fair trial?
Our lawyer is a morty.
It's not fair. You have no rights, and he's not a lawyer.
We just keep him here because he's fun.
Look at him go.
Ha ha ha!
Yeah!
We'll be lenient if you renounce your Rick.
What say you, summer?
I say fuck you.
My grandpa was my hero.
You killed him because you were jealous of him.
That's pretty obvious from the haircut.
So do what you want to me, but let my brother go.
He already renounced Rick.
Morty?
What?
No, I don't want to see your pog collection.
I don't renounce Rick, and I never have.
I was just trying to protect my sister.
I wanted you to have a normal life.
That's something you can't have when Rick shows up.
Everything real turns fake.
Everything right is wrong.
All you know is that you know nothing, and he knows everything.
And, well...
Well, he's not a villain, summer,
but he shouldn't be your hero.
He's more like a demon or a super fucked up god.
Let's not suck the ghost of his dick too hard.
He was a terrorist, and now he's dead.
Oh yeah, if you think my Rick's dead, he's alive.
And if you think you're safe, he's coming for you.
Oh my god, Rick.
He's coming.
Hey, whoa, whoa, what are you doing in here?
This area is for teleporting the entire Citadel to somewhere else
using only buttons and dials.
Yeah, well, bad idea to have it designed that way then, isn't it?
What the fuck?
We just teleported into a galactic federal prison!
You're gonna go take a shit!
We're in the park!
Whoa! What the hell?
Oh my god!
Whoa!
Wait, wait, wait, wait, don't do that!
What are you doing?!
What?
The Citadel's been teleported to...
...the Federation space.
It's doomed.
This has to be C-137, you guys.
What are we gonna do?
You know he's coming for us.
Great. Calm down.
We have his summer as a hostage.
Obviously, I get her.
You guys played Rick Laser Scissors for the Morty.
W-What the hell is that?
Payback.
Grandpa Rick?
Duh.
You're alive!
Rick!
Morty, take this. You're gonna need it later.
Hold on, hold on!
That's enough, Rick.
What's this supposed to accomplish?
We have infinite grandkids.
You're trying to use Disney Box at a Caesar's palace here.
Hey, that's a bluff.
He's bluffing, sir. He loves me.
You're a rogue, Rick.
Irrational, passionate.
You love your grandkids.
You came to rescue them.
I came to kill you, bro.
That's not even my original summer.
Oh, my God. He's not bluffing.
He's not bluffing.
Rick!
Why not shoot through her?
20 yards.
9 gauge plasma pistol.
My first shot would liquefy her insides and injure you.
Second shot adds recoil.
The risk to me is minimized if I wait for you to shoot her,
which I'm encouraging you to do.
What the fuck?
I won't let her go,
which I will reward with a quicker death.
Because you love her.
Because it's incentive for you to give me my cleanest shot,
which will be your least painful death.
But if you want to die slower than that, I'm super into it.
All you gotta do to get that started is kill the girl.
I hate you!
Not an issue, sweetie.
That's enough. Drop the gun, Rick.
Morty, I know you're too stupid to get this,
but you're really fucking this up right now.
I'm not letting you let my sister die. Drop the gun.
I wasn't gonna let her die. You fucking moron.
Aww.
The point is, he thought I was going to.
I totally did, by the way.
You're a fucking moron, Morty.
Morty, you fucking idiot.
You're a serious fucking idiot, Morty.
You basically killed us all.
No, you're a dumbass.
You're a dumbass. You're a dumbass.
You're an idiot, Morty.
You're a dickhead.
I was just there.
I remember late eyes on idiotes.
I'm blind.
What an idiot.
Who's stupid now, bitch?
Morty, we just got him back!
Ha ha ha ha ha.
That was amazing, Morty. Oh my god.
Wow.
Okay, let's wrap this up.
Good job, Morty. Let's go, kids.
What?! What happened?
Hold this, Rick. Trick in the book.
Fake gun. Shoot me and stand up.
Brilliant!
Yeah. Good thing I saw that note.
Oh, no!
Can't they just portal all?
Not until I finish what I started.
That is how you get level 9 access without a password.
Freeze!
Employee of the month, ladies and gentlemen.
So what are you doing with level 9 access, anyways?
Destroying the...galactic government.
Awesome!
Are you going to settle their nukes to target each other?
Or reprogram their military portals to disintegrate their entire space fleet?
Good pitches, kids.
Good.
Good pitches, kids. I'm almost proud.
But watch closely as Grandpa topples an empire by changing a 1 to a 0.
Mr. President, the Blimpflark's value just dropped to nothing.
What do you mean?
I mean, our single centralized galactic currency just went from being worth 1 of itself to 0 of itself.
Oh, dear God.
Calm down, people.
Deploy the galactic militia into Clermarchal Law.
Yes, sir.
Uh, what should I pay them with?
Their payment is the honor they'll feel to serve their way to.
Who's paying me to yell at this guy?
I can answer that for money.
I never thought I'd ever see this guy.
Gentlemen, gentlemen.
There's a solution here you're not seeing.
Get me your jacket!
Carry on!
Get off me!
Control the balance!
Control the galaxy!
No longer will the insects have domain in all the surface world!
Jerry, what the hell is happening?
The galactic government collapsed.
Are you okay?
Look, I'm not proud to share this, but the truth is I just kept crawling and it kept working.
Oh, I'm glad you're okay.
Are we ever going to stop paying for indulging your father, our children, our planet, our jobs?
Is there anything left to lose?
Just each other, and I'll never let you go, and I'm so sorry I ever did this to us.
Guess who dismantled the government?
Please don't leave me again.
I never will, baby.
I was right.
He turned himself in on purpose.
It was all part of his plan.
Jerry, is there any light beer left?
It's insane what you miss in prison.
Um, okay.
No.
Foot down time.
No, you're right.
Where's the vodka?
Beth, it's him or me.
Seems like you guys need some privacy.
I'll, uh, I'll be in the garage.
What the fuck?
Not cool, Jerry.
Man's garage is his castle.
Jerry's going to spend some time...divorced.
Oh, I'm sorry to hear that, sweetie.
I hope I had nothing to do with it.
Oh, God, Dad, that is not your burden to bear.
I feel terrible that I misjudged you.
This is going to be good for Jerry.
For everybody.
For everybody?
I better tend to Jerry before he changes his mind
and doesn't move out.
I will leave you two to your adventures.
Oh, my God.
Nancy says they're drawing and quartering aliens
in the school courtyard,
and it technically counts as patriotism.
Jeez.
Are my parents seriously going to get divorced?
All right, Rick, I'm going to go to my...
Not so fast, Morty. You heard your mom.
We've got adventures to go on, Morty.
Just you and me.
And sometimes your sister and sometimes your mom,
but never your dad.
You want to know why, Morty?
Because he crossed me.
Okay, take it easy, Rick. That's dark.
Oh, it gets darker, Morty.
Welcome to the darkest year of our adventures.
First thing that's different, no more Dad, Morty.
Oh, jeez.
He threatened to turn me into the government,
so I made him and the government go away.
Oh, fuck.
I've replaced them both as the de facto patriarch
of your family and your universe.
Your mom wouldn't have accepted me
if I came home without you and your sister.
So now you know the real reason I rescued you.
I just took over the family, Morty.
And if you tell your mom or sister,
I said any of this, I'll deny it.
And they'll take my side because I'm a hero, Morty.
And now you're going to go and do whatever I say, Morty, forever.
And I'll go out and I'll find some more
of that Mulan Szechuan Teriyaki dipping sauce, Morty.
You're talking about...
Because that's what this is all about, Morty.
That's my one-armed man.
I'm not driven by avenging my dead family, Morty.
That was fake.
I'm driven by fighting that McNugget sauce.
I want that Mulan McNugget sauce, Morty.
That's my series, Art, Morty.
If it takes nine seasons, I want my McNugget
dipping sauce Szechuan sauce, Morty.
That's what's going to take us all away from you, Morty.
What are you talking about?
Season nine more seasons, Morty.
Nine more seasons until I get that dipping Szechuan sauce.
What is that?
For 97 more years, Morty.
What are you talking about?
I want that McNugget sauce, Morty.
Is it ready?
Yes, we can bring it online now.
Do it.
I am Phoenix Person.
Phoenix Person.
Is that what we settled on?
I thought we all agreed on Cyber Bird.
You said you didn't care what he was called
as long as we brought him back.
Yeah, but Phoenix Person?
Fine. Fuck it. Who cares?
Ha!
Ha! Ha!
AAAAAAAA!
INNIS!
Did you get any of that?